# üí• New Models from Mistral, Cloud Outage Chaos & AI Browsers

> June 17, 2025

## üß† AI News & Trends

### [Here are Apple‚Äôs top AI announcements from WWDC 2025 (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2025%2F06%2F12%2Fhere-are-apples-top-ai-announcements-from-wwdc-2025%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

At WWDC‚ÄØ2025, Apple unveiled Visual Intelligence for image-based context
understanding, a personalized Workout Buddy, on-device Live Translation, and
opened its Foundation Models API for developers. Everything is under its new
‚ÄúLiquid‚ÄØGlass‚Äù UI and unified OS naming.

### [Reflections (5min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.samaltman.com%2Freflections&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Sam Altman reflects on OpenAI‚Äôs growth from a modest lab to launching ChatGPT in
Nov 2022, navigating challenges including his unexpected firing and improved
governance, and advancing toward AGI and superintelligence with a commitment to
safety and broad benefit.

### [Introducing Magistral (5min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmistral.ai%2Fnews%2Fmagistral&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Mistral AI has launched ‚ÄúMagistral‚Äù, its first reasoning-focused models:
open-source Magistral‚ÄØSmall (24B parameters) and the enterprise-grade
Magistral‚ÄØMedium. These models offer transparent, chain-of‚Äëthought reasoning
across multiple languages and excel in domain-specific tasks.

### [Disney, Universal sue image creator Midjourney for copyright infringement (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reuters.com%2Fbusiness%2Fmedia-telecom%2Fdisney-universal-sue-image-creator-midjourney-copyright-infringement-2025-06-11%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Disney and Universal sued Midjourney for alleged copyright infringement,
claiming it used iconic characters in AI training without permission. The suit
could set major legal precedent for AI and copyright.

### [Cloud collapse: Replit and LlamaIndex knocked offline by Google Cloud identity outage (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fventurebeat.com%2Fai%2Fcloud-collapse-replit-llamaindex-knocked-offline-by-google-cloud-identity-outage%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

On June¬†12, 2025, a Google Cloud outage involving identity and API services
disrupted major AI platforms including Replit, LlamaIndex, ChatGPT, Claude,
Weights &‚ÄØBiases (alongside sites like Spotify and Discord). Downtime lasted
approximately 3 hours.

## üõ†Ô∏è Dev Tools & Frameworks

### [Claude Squad (GitHub)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fsmtg-ai%2Fclaude-squad&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Claude Squad is a terminal app that let's you mange multiple instances of agents
like Claude Code, Codex, and other local agents in multiple workspaces, allowing
you to work on different tasks simultaneously.

### [Dia (Browser)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.diabrowser.com%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Dia is the new AI browser from The Browser Company. You can chat with your tabs,
write in your own unique voice, learn and plan faster, shop, and much more. You
also get the ability to manage your own privacy controls.

### [Seedance 1.0 (Model)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fseed.bytedance.com%2Fen%2Fseedance&s=[[subscriberToken]])

ByteDance Seed released Seedance‚ÄØ1.0, a new model that supports video generation
from text and image. It generates cinematic 1080p, multi‚Äëshot videos with smooth
motion and consistent style. It‚Äôs fast (~41s for a 5s clip) and tops benchmarks
when compared to Veo‚ÄØ3.

## ‚ö° Quick Bits

### [The price of o3 was dropped by 80%](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fsama%2Fstatus%2F1932434606558462459&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Sam Altman announced that OpenAI has dropped the price of o3 by 80% and mentions
that users will also likely be happy with o3-pro pricing for the performance it
gives.

### [Design Mode on V0](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fv0%2Fstatus%2F1932892095565660490&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Vercel announced that v0 now has Design Mode where you can quickly tweak your
generations, preview changes, and save when ready. It removes the need to spend
credits or wait on an LLM and is Tailwind / shadcn native.

### [Cline now has Plan mode](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fcline%2Fstatus%2F1933184508532306177&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Cline originally didn't want to build a 'plan mode' as it was against their core
principles, however after overwhelming demand from their users they changed that
line of thinking.

## üìå Deep Dive

### [OpenAI Academy](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Facademy.openai.com%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

A great, free resource to learn all things AI. It's both expert and
community-led learning and helps you stay ahead with AI by learning about new
products and the latest cutting-edge solutions, directly from the experts at
OpenAI.
