# 🧠 Claude’s smarter, Google’s building, and AI is evolving fast

> May 27, 2025

AI is moving fast — and as developers, it’s becoming harder (and more important)
to keep up. This newsletter is here to help. Every Tuesday, We’ll send you a
curated, no-fluff roundup of the most important AI news, tools, and
breakthroughs — all tailored for busy developers who want to stay sharp,
informed, and future-proof.

Let’s dive in.

## 🧠 This Week in AI

### [Introducing Claude 4 (5min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.anthropic.com%2Fnews%2Fclaude-4&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Anthropic has unveiled Claude 4, featuring two new models - Opus 4, hailed as
the world’s leading coding model capable of maintaining deep focus on complex,
multi-hour tasks, and Sonnet 4, a steered-up version of Sonnet 3.7 optimized for
coding, reasoning, and instructional fidelity.

### [Building with AI: highlights for developers at Google I/O (6min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.google%2Ftechnology%2Fdevelopers%2Fgoogle-ai-developer-updates-io-2025%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Google I/O 2025 introduced powerful developer-focused AI tools: Gemini 2.5 Flash
for speed, Gemini 2.5 Pro with “thinking budgets,” and preview access to models
like Gemma 3n, Gemini Diffusion, and Lyria RealTime. Plus, Colab is now full of
agentic features.

## 🛠️ Tools, Products, and Frameworks

### [Claude Code](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.anthropic.com%2Fclaude-code&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Claude Code is now generally available. It is a developer‑focused, agentic CLI
tool that deeply understands and navigates your codebase. It enables
natural‑language commands to map projects, fix bugs, refactor, triage issues,
run tests, and even create / submit PRs directly from the terminal or IDE.

### [Flow](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Flabs.google%2Fflow%2Fabout&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Google’s Flow is an AI filmmaking tool powered by the new Veo 3 as well as
Imagen 4 and Gemini. It enables creators to generate cinematic clips with camera
controls, scene editing, asset management, and a clip gallery. It’s currently
available in the U.S. via Google AI Pro and Ultra plans.

## 💡 Quick Bites

### [AlphaEvolve: A Gemini-powered coding agent for designing advanced algorithms (5min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdeepmind.google%2Fdiscover%2Fblog%2Falphaevolve-a-gemini-powered-coding-agent-for-designing-advanced-algorithms%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

AlphaEvolve is an evolutionary coding agent powered by Gemini that generates
algorithm variants, evaluates them automatically, and iteratively refines
solutions. It rediscovered or improved algorithms in ~75% of 50 open problems,
drove practical gains in matrix multiplication, data center scheduling, and TPU
design.

### [Sam & Jony introduce io (1min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fopenai.com%2Fsam-and-jony%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

OpenAI has merged with Jony Ive’s startup io (co‑founded with Scott Cannon,
Evans Hankey and Tang Tan), bringing his LoveFrom design team in‑house.
Together, their goal is to redefine how AI hardware looks and feels, combining
deep design care with cutting‑edge AI.

## 📌 Deep Dive

### [Deep Dive into LLMs like ChatGPT (3hr watch)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3D7xTGNNLPyMI&s=[[subscriberToken]])

An incredibly in-depth video by Andrej Karpathy (a founding member of OpenAI)
that provides a general audience deep dive into LLMs and how they work and are
developed.
