# üß∞ ChatGPT Apps SDK, Sora 2, and Claude Skills

> October 7, 2025

## üß† AI News & Trends

### [Introducing apps in ChatGPT and the new Apps SDK (6min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fopenai.com%2Findex%2Fintroducing-apps-in-chatgpt%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

ChatGPT introduces interactive, conversational apps using a new Apps SDK,
launching with partners like Canva, Spotify, and Zillow. Available now to non-EU
users, with developer tools and monetization coming soon.

### [Sora 2 is here (6min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fopenai.com%2Findex%2Fsora-2%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

OpenAI launches Sora 2, a powerful video-audio model capable of realistic world
simulations and personal cameos, alongside a new iOS social app prioritizing
creativity, control, and safety.

### [Anthropic works on customizable Skills for Claude (3min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.testingcatalog.com%2Fanthropic-works-on-customizable-skills-for-claude%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Claude is testing a ‚ÄúSkills‚Äù feature enabling users to upload custom, repeatable
instructions for automation and control, signaling a major step toward
extensibility and competitive parity with other AI platforms.

### [CharacterAI removes Disney characters after receiving cease-and-desist letter (1min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2025%2F10%2F01%2Fcharacter-ai-removes-disney-characters-after-receiving-cease-and-desist-letter%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Disney sent Character.AI a cease-and-desist to remove infringing Disney
characters from its chatbot platform after concerns about copyright misuse and
harmful content, prompting Character.AI to pull some but not all Disney-owned
characters.

### [OpenAI Valuation Reaches $500 Billion, Topping Musk‚Äôs SpaceX (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.bloomberg.com%2Fnews%2Farticles%2F2025-10-02%2Fopenai-completes-share-sale-at-record-500-billion-valuation&s=[[subscriberToken]])

OpenAI hit a $500B valuation through a $6.6B secondary share sale, surpassing
SpaceX and solidifying its position as the world‚Äôs most valuable private company
while bolstering employee retention amid rising AI competition.

### [Anthropic hires new CTO with focus on AI infrastructure (3min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2025%2F10%2F02%2Fanthropic-hires-new-cto-with-focus-on-ai-infrastructure%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Anthropic named ex-Stripe CTO Rahul Patil as its new CTO, tasking him with
scaling infrastructure amid rising AI demand, while co-founder Sam McCandlish
transitions to chief architect to focus on large-scale model training.

### [Reddit stock falls for second day as references to its content in ChatGPT responses plummet (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Ffinance.yahoo.com%2Fnews%2Freddit-stock-falls-for-second-day-as-references-to-its-content-in-chatgpt-responses-plummet-135203534.html&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Reddit stock fell 12% as ChatGPT citations of its content dropped from 14% to
2%, raising concerns over future licensing deals despite strong ad revenue
growth.

## üõ†Ô∏è Dev Tools & Frameworks

### [AgentKit (Tooling)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fopenai.com%2Findex%2Fintroducing-agentkit%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

OpenAI launched AgentKit, a full suite for building and managing AI agents with
visual workflows, integrated connectors, customizable chat UIs, and expanded
eval tools to streamline and speed up development.

### [Tinker (API)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fthinkingmachines.ai%2Fblog%2Fannouncing-tinker%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Tinker is a flexible API for fine-tuning open-weight language models, offering
low-level control, managed infrastructure, and an open-source cookbook. Already
used by top research groups, it's now in private beta and free to start.

### [GLM-4.6: Advanced Agentic, Reasoning and Coding Capabilities (Model)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fz.ai%2Fblog%2Fglm-4.6&s=[[subscriberToken]])

GLM-4.6 boosts context window to 200K tokens, enhances coding and reasoning
skills, and improves token efficiency by 15%, performing near Claude Sonnet 4
and surpassing other open models in real-world tasks.

### [Gemini 2.5 Flash Image now ready for production with new aspect ratios (Model)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdevelopers.googleblog.com%2Fen%2Fgemini-2-5-flash-image-now-ready-for-production-with-new-aspect-ratios%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Gemini 2.5 Flash Image is now production-ready, offering 10 aspect ratios,
image-only outputs, and advanced tools for editing, storytelling, and live image
generation, powering creative use cases from AR to AI games.

### [The Internet is Better on Comet (Tooling)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.perplexity.ai%2Fhub%2Fblog%2Fcomet-is-now-available-to-everyone-worldwide&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Perplexity‚Äôs Comet browser is now free to all, offering AI-powered assistants
for browsing, email, and background tasks, with a mobile app and
journalism-focused Comet Plus also announced to build a better, curiosity-driven
internet.

## ‚ö° Quick Bits

### [Cursor has a new stealth model (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fitsbyrobin%2Fstatus%2F1974701562636202188&s=[[subscriberToken]])

It's called "Cheetah" and is not free to try, which is unusual. The cost is
$1.25M in / $10M out.

### [Codex CLI 0.44.0 is out (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fembirico%2Fstatus%2F1974193584640499960&s=[[subscriberToken]])

It contains a long-awaited UI refresh, streamable HTTP MCP servers, named &
positional args in custom prompts, experimental `codex cloud`, and a ton more
polish.

### [Introducing Agent Workflows from ElevenLabs (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Felevenlabsio%2Fstatus%2F1975191207149269214&s=[[subscriberToken]])

A visual editor for designing conversation flows in Agents Platform. Instead of
building all of your business logic in a single agent, Workflows enable you to
handle more complex scenarios by routing to specialized Subagents.

### [Several upgrades to Claude Code were announced (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fclaudeai%2Fstatus%2F1972758346068640120&s=[[subscriberToken]])

They also launched two new features for managing context on the Claude Developer
Platform.

### [Claude is now available in Slack (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fclaudeai%2Fstatus%2F1973445694305468597&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Chat with Claude through DMs, tag @Claude in threads, or use the AI assistant
panel‚Äîwith access to web search, document analysis, and your connected tools.

## üìå Deep Dive

### [Sampling and structured outputs in LLMs (Insight)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fparthsareen.com%2Fblog.html%23sampling.md&s=[[subscriberToken]])

A deep dive into structured outputs and token sampling in LLMs, covering
grammar-based constraints, sampling optimizations, and evolving model
capabilities like gpt-oss's native JSON output.

### [Effective context engineering for AI agents (Guide)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.anthropic.com%2Fengineering%2Feffective-context-engineering-for-ai-agents&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Context is a critical but finite resource for AI agents. In this post,
strategies for effectively curating and managing the context that powers them
are explored.

### [Claude Sonnet 4.5 is a very good model (Insight)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fthezvi.substack.com%2Fp%2Fclaude-sonnet-45-is-a-very-good-model&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Claude Sonnet 4.5 significantly boosts coding, agent, and reasoning
capabilities, setting new benchmarks while adding key upgrades like Claude Code
2.0, a VS Code extension, and Agent SDK. It outpaces rivals in many tasks but
trails GPT-5 in the most complex problems.
