# üöÄ Anthropic‚Äôs 1M Google TPUs, Meta‚Äôs AI layoffs, and ChatGPT Atlas

> October 28, 2025

## üß† AI News & Trends

### [Expanding our use of Google Cloud TPUs and Services (2min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.anthropic.com%2Fnews%2Fexpanding-our-use-of-google-cloud-tpus-and-services&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Anthropic will use up to one million Google TPUs in a multibillion-dollar
expansion to boost Claude‚Äôs capabilities, support rapid customer growth, and
advance AI research, while maintaining its diversified compute strategy with
Google, Amazon, and NVIDIA.

### [Meta lays off 600 from ‚Äòbloated‚Äô AI unit as Wang cements leadership (3min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cnbc.com%2F2025%2F10%2F22%2Fmeta-layoffs-ai.html&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Meta is cutting 600 AI roles, mainly from legacy teams like FAIR, to streamline
operations and back new leadership under Alexandr Wang, while continuing heavy
investment in AI and infrastructure projects like its $27B Hyperion data center.

### [Reddit sues Perplexity for allegedly ripping its content to feed AI (3min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theverge.com%2Fnews%2F804660%2Freddit-suing-perplexity-data-scrapers-ai-lawsuit&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Reddit is suing Perplexity and three scrapers for unlawfully bypassing
protections to access copyrighted data, accusing Perplexity of using ‚Äústolen‚Äù
content to fuel its AI engine instead of entering a licensing deal like
competitors.

### [Unseeable prompt injections in screenshots: more vulnerabilities in Comet and other AI browsers (6min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fbrave.com%2Fblog%2Funseeable-prompt-injections%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

AI-powered browsers like Perplexity Comet and Fellou are vulnerable to prompt
injection attacks through screenshots and website content, allowing malicious
actors to hijack user sessions and perform unauthorized actions.

### [SoftBank approves remaining $22.5 billion of OpenAI investment (2min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reuters.com%2Fbusiness%2Fmedia-telecom%2Fsoftbank-approves-remaining-225-billion-openai-investment-information-reports-2025-10-25&s=[[subscriberToken]])

SoftBank approved a $22.5B installment to complete a $30B investment in OpenAI,
contingent on the AI firm‚Äôs corporate restructuring and plans for a public
offering.

### [OpenAI reportedly developing new generative music tool (1min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2025%2F10%2F25%2Fopenai-reportedly-developing-new-generative-music-tool&s=[[subscriberToken]])

OpenAI is building a generative music tool using text and audio prompts,
potentially aiding video scoring and vocal backing, with Juilliard students
helping annotate training data. No release date has been announced.

### [Meet Mico, Microsoft‚Äôs AI version of Clippy (3min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theverge.com%2Fnews%2F804106%2Fmicrosoft-mico-copilot-ai-assistant-clippy&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Microsoft‚Äôs new AI assistant Mico brings real-time expressions, personalized
memory, and a Socratic Learn Live tutor mode to Copilot‚Äôs voice feature, aiming
to revive and modernize the legacy of Clippy and Cortana.

## üõ†Ô∏è Dev Tools & Frameworks

### [ChatGPT Atlas (Tooling)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fchatgpt.com%2Fatlas%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

ChatGPT Atlas, the browser with ChatGPT built in. Get instant answers,
summaries, and smart web help‚Äîright from any page.

### [Work smarter with your company knowledge in ChatGPT (Tooling)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fopenai.com%2Findex%2Fintroducing-company-knowledge%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

ChatGPT‚Äôs new company knowledge feature connects internal tools like Slack and
Drive to deliver context-aware, cited answers using GPT-5‚Äîrespecting user
permissions and enhancing decisions with secure, private access.

### [MarkItDown-MCP (GitHub)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fmicrosoft%2Fmarkitdown%2Ftree%2Fmain%2Fpackages%2Fmarkitdown-mcp&s=[[subscriberToken]])

The markitdown-mcp package provides a lightweight STDIO, Streamable HTTP, and
SSE MCP server for calling MarkItDown.

### [agent-lightning (GitHub)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fmicrosoft%2Fagent-lightning&s=[[subscriberToken]])

The absolute trainer to light up AI agents.

### [Perplexica (GitHub)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FItzCrazyKns%2FPerplexica&s=[[subscriberToken]])

AI-powered answering engine. It is an Open source alternative to Perplexity AI.

## ‚ö° Quick Bits

### [Memory is now available for Max users and rolling out to Pro over the next two weeks (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fclaudeai%2Fstatus%2F1981407198665462127&s=[[subscriberToken]])

With project-scoped memory, each project maintains its own focused context.

### [Shared Projects are expanding to Free, Plus, and Pro users (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fopenai%2Fstatus%2F1981432799212249119&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Invite others to work together in ChatGPT using shared chats, files, and
instructions all in one place.

### [v0 the app is now live (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fv0%2Fstatus%2F1981507795582406937&s=[[subscriberToken]])

It is currently available on iOS.

### [If you see Gemini 3 everywhere, you are not alone. (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Ftestingcatalog%2Fstatus%2F1982561694527234102&s=[[subscriberToken]])

It looks like the Gemini 3 hype game has started on X.

### [OpenAI has been testing a new version of GPT-5-mini (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Ftestingcatalog%2Fstatus%2F1981733082047697352&s=[[subscriberToken]])

It was likely the model that powers the Internal Knowledge feature for business
accounts.

## üìå Deep Dive

### [How Well Does RL Scale? (Insight)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.lesswrong.com%2Fposts%2Fxpj6KhDM9bJybdnEe%2Fhow-well-does-rl-scale&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Inference-scaling yields faster AI gains than RL-scaling, which now faces
prohibitive costs and diminishing returns, marking a shift toward inference as
the main path for capability boosts beyond GPT-5.

### [Mitigating Prompt Injection in Comet (Insight)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.perplexity.ai%2Fhub%2Fblog%2Fmitigating-prompt-injection-in-comet&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Comet, Perplexity‚Äôs AI browser, tackles the rising threat of malicious prompt
injection with layered defenses including real-time detection, structured
prompting, and user confirmations‚Äîensuring safe, action-capable AI usage.
