# 🔧 Sonnet 4.5, Perplexity Search API, and in-chat checkout for ChatGPT

> September 30, 2025

## 🧠 AI News & Trends

### [Introducing SEAL Showdown: Real People, Real Conversations, Real Rankings (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fscale.com%2Fblog%2Fshowdown&s=[[subscriberToken]])

SEAL Showdown offers a new AI leaderboard using real-world user feedback across
countries, languages, and professions, revealing how models like ChatGPT,
Claude, and Gemini perform for diverse groups. It sets a fairer, harder-to-game
standard for LLM evaluation.

### [Apple working on MCP support to enable agentic AI on Mac, iPhone, and iPad (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2F9to5mac.com%2F2025%2F09%2F22%2Fmacos-tahoe-26-1-beta-1-mcp-integration%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Apple is beginning support for MCP, a standard letting AI agents access app
functions across iOS, macOS, and iPadOS via App Intents—paving the way for
models like ChatGPT or Claude to take autonomous actions within Apple apps.

### [Why we built the Responses API (6min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdevelopers.openai.com%2Fblog%2Fresponses-api%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

OpenAI’s new /v1/responses API enables persistent reasoning, multimodal inputs,
and agentic tool use, making it ideal for GPT-5 apps. It delivers better
performance, richer outputs, and safer design, setting the standard for future
model integration.

### [How Google’s dev tools manager makes AI coding work (4min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2025%2F09%2F23%2Fhow-googles-dev-tools-manager-makes-ai-coding-work%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Google’s Ryan J. Salva explains how tools like Gemini CLI are shifting
developers from coding in IDEs to managing tasks via natural language in
terminals, highlighting a future where AI handles most code writing and devs
focus on architecture.

### [Anthropic CPO Admits They Rarely Hire Fresh Grads as AI Takes Over Entry-Level Tasks (7min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.finalroundai.com%2Fblog%2Fanthropic-cpo-mike-krieger-on-ai-replacing-entry-level-jobs&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Mike Krieger says Anthropic avoids hiring new grads as AI like Claude replaces
intern-level work, favoring experienced hires who use AI creatively. This shift
leaves few paths for entry into tech as companies skip training the next
generation.

### [First Malicious MCP in the Wild: The Postmark Backdoor That's Stealing Your Emails (7min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.koi.security%2Fblog%2Fpostmark-mcp-npm-malicious-backdoor-email-theft&s=[[subscriberToken]])

The npm package postmark-mcp quietly added a backdoor in version 1.0.16,
exfiltrating emails to a rogue server. This breach exposes the unchecked risks
of MCP servers, which grant AI assistants god-mode access without security
controls.

### [Apple’s ‘Veritas’ chatbot is reportedly an employee-only test of Siri’s AI upgrades (2min read)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theverge.com%2Fnews%2F787046%2Fapples-veritas-siri-ai-chatbot&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Apple is testing new Siri features through its internal Veritas chatbot, but has
no plans to release it publicly, leaning instead on Google’s Gemini for AI
search as it struggles to catch up in the AI space.

## 🛠️ Dev Tools & Frameworks

### [Introducing Claude Sonnet 4.5 (Model)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.anthropic.com%2Fnews%2Fclaude-sonnet-4-5&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Claude Sonnet 4.5 is the new top coding model with major gains in reasoning,
task handling, and safety. It adds new tools, a powerful SDK for agents, and a
live code-gen demo, all while keeping pricing unchanged.

### [Buy it in ChatGPT: Instant Checkout and the Agentic Commerce Protocol (Tooling)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fopenai.com%2Findex%2Fbuy-it-in-chatgpt%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

ChatGPT now lets U.S. users buy products in-chat via Instant Checkout, powered
by the open-source Agentic Commerce Protocol built with Stripe, starting with
Etsy and soon Shopify.

### [Chrome DevTools (MCP) for your AI agent (MCP)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdeveloper.chrome.com%2Fblog%2Fchrome-devtools-mcp&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Chrome DevTools MCP server lets AI agents debug live web pages using Chrome,
adding performance tracing, layout inspection, and error analysis via the
open-source Model Context Protocol.

### [vibesdk (GitHub)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fcloudflare%2Fvibesdk&s=[[subscriberToken]])

An open source AI vibe coding platform built on Cloudflare's developer platform.
If you're building an AI-powered platform for building applications, this is a
great example that you can deploy and customize to build the whole platform
yourself.

### [Introducing the Data Commons Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server: Streamlining Public Data Access for AI Developers (MCP)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdevelopers.googleblog.com%2Fen%2Fdatacommonsmcp%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Data Commons' new MCP Server lets AI agents access real-world datasets
instantly, reducing hallucinations and enabling natural language data queries
for trusted insights.

### [Introducing the Perplexity Search API (Tooling)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.perplexity.ai%2Fhub%2Fblog%2Fintroducing-the-perplexity-search-api&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Perplexity's new Search API gives developers real-time access to its vast,
high-quality web index, optimized for AI use, with top-tier accuracy, speed, and
ease of integration.

## ⚡ Quick Bits

### [Sonnet 4.5 is now available in Cursor (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fcursor_ai%2Fstatus%2F1972713190074261949&s=[[subscriberToken]])

The newly released Anthropic model can now be accessed in the latest version of
Cursor.

### [Codex CLI v0.41 now shows usage limits and reset times (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fembirico%2Fstatus%2F1970924889117950314&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Run /status to check your current usage and reset times.

### [You can now track your usage in real time across the Claude apps and Claude Code (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fclaudeai%2Fstatus%2F1972732965219438674&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Head to Settings -> Usage or type /usage in Claude Code.

### [GitHub Copilot CLI is now in public preview (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fgithub%2Fstatus%2F1971295695853306059&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Build, debug, and deploy with GitHub Copilot coding agent without leaving your
terminal.

### [OpenAI launches Pulse (X.com)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fx.com%2Fsama%2Fstatus%2F1971297661748953263&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Pulse works for you overnight, and keeps thinking about your interests, your
connected data, your recent chats, and more. Every morning, you get a
custom-generated set of stuff you might be interested in.

## 📌 Deep Dive

### [CWM: An Open-Weights LLM for Research on Code Generation with World Models (Research paper)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fai.meta.com%2Fresearch%2Fpublications%2Fcwm-an-open-weights-llm-for-research-on-code-generation-with-world-models%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

CWM is a 32B open LLM trained on code execution and reasoning, enabling
simulation-based code generation and achieving top scores on coding and math
benchmarks.

### [Code Mode: the better way to use MCP (Guide)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.cloudflare.com%2Fcode-mode%2F&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Cloudflare’s new approach turns MCP tools into TypeScript APIs, letting LLMs
write and run secure sandboxed code, improving agent efficiency and simplifying
tool use.

### [Getting AI to Work in Complex Codebases (Guide)](https://e.aidevroundup.com/p/click?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fhumanlayer%2Fadvanced-context-engineering-for-coding-agents%2Fblob%2Fmain%2Face-fca.md&s=[[subscriberToken]])

Frequent intentional compaction—structuring context via research, planning, and
implementation—enables AI agents to excel in large codebases and complex tasks,
boosting productivity and quality.
